_how_to/How-To-Print-Labels.markdown, before:

---
title: How To Print Labels
layout: default_toc
author: Emily Braker
date: 2019-05-02
---
# How to Print Labels

**Print specimen/object labels by querying the desired records and using the Manage Menu to "Print Any Report." From there, select the relevant report template to generate a PDF.**

* From the Search Page, query the specimen(s) that wish to print labels for. Search by catalog number, a series of catalog numbers, by accession number, or any parameters needed to return the intended records.

* On the Results page, navigate to the Manage Menu --> Print Any Report. 
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/gh-pages/images/uploads/print_any_report.JPG)
* From the drop-down menu, select the report you want (usually your insitution's standard label template). Click the "Print Report" button to generate a PDF of the labels. From there, print away!

# Tutorial Video ↗️

[![YouTube: How To Print Labels](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/gh-pages/tutorial_images/How_to_Print_Labels_in_Arctos_thumb.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BlOi5XwJHas)

Commit message:

Needs an update
Added construction bear and redirect to file an issue for labels.

_how_to/How-To-Print-Labels.markdown, after:

---
title: How To Print Labels
layout: default_toc
author: Emily Braker, Teresa J Mayfield-Meyer
created on: 2019-05-02
date: 2022-10-31
---

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/gh-pages/tutorial_images/Bear%20Work%20in%20Progress.JPG)

[Add to current update request](https://github.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/issues/280)

We are in the process of moving reports to a new system. If you had a report in the ColdFusion Reporter that you loved and want to re-create, please [file an issue](https://github.com/ArctosDB/arctos/issues/new?assignees=lkvoong&labels=function-Reports&template=report-template-request.md&title=New+Arctos+Report+Template+Request) for assistance.

# How to Print Labels

**Print specimen/object labels by querying the desired records and using the Manage Menu to "Print Any Report." From there, select the relevant report template to generate a PDF.**

* From the Search Page, query the specimen(s) that wish to print labels for. Search by catalog number, a series of catalog numbers, by accession number, or any parameters needed to return the intended records.

* On the Results page, navigate to the Manage Menu --> Print Any Report. 
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/gh-pages/images/uploads/print_any_report.JPG)
* From the drop-down menu, select the report you want (usually your insitution's standard label template). Click the "Print Report" button to generate a PDF of the labels. From there, print away!

## Tutorial Video ↗️

[![YouTube: How To Print Labels](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/gh-pages/tutorial_images/How_to_Print_Labels_in_Arctos_thumb.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BlOi5XwJHas)

## Community Discussion

[Github Issue #280](https://github.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/issues/280)
