_how_to/How-to-Add-Loan-Items.markdown, before:

---
title: How To Add Loan Items
layout: default_toc
author: DLM, Teresa J Mayfield-Meyer
date: 2021-01-15, 2021-07-24
---
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/gh-pages/tutorial_images/Bear%20Work%20in%20Progress.JPG) 

[Add to Current update request](https://github.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/issues/186)

[//]: #[Request an Update to this How To](https://github.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/issues/new?assignees=&labels=How+To+Update&template=how-to-update.md&title=How+To+%5Badd+title%5D+update)

# How To Add Items to a Loan

## From the Edit Loan Page

Click the “Add Items” button at the bottom of the page.

The standard Arctos search page will appear, but with red letters saying:  **You are searching for items to add to a loan**

Search for catalog records as you normally would. When the results are displayed, there will be an option next to each catalog record’s parts that will allow you to add it to the loan. Select the relevant parts and then click “Back to Loan” at the top of the page (above the line that indicates the number of specimens that were found).

## Object Loans

Standard loans loan specimen parts.

### Loan-->SpecimenSearch-->SpecimenResults (individual)

Click one of the various "add items" links from the loan search results or edit pages, perform a search, and select individual parts to add in the grid that will appear.

### Loan-->SpecimenSearch-->SpecimenResults (bulk)

After following the pathway for individual items, bulk tools are available if the search results are of sufficient homogeneity.

### Loan-->Saved Search

You may go directly to your saved searches and archives in loan mode by selecting one from the edit loan form.

### Loan-->Barcode

Follow the link to add loan items by scanning barcodes.

### Bulkloader

A tool to bulkload loan items is available.

### Container Leaf Nodes

[How To Find Parts for a Loan Using Object Tracking (Barcodes)](https://handbook.arctosdb.org/how_to/How-To-Find-Parts%20for-a-Loan-Using%20Object%20Tracking-Existing-Freezer-Box.html

Find any container, view leaf nodes

## Data Loans 

Data loans "loan" cataloged items.


### Bulkloader

A tool to bulkload data loan items is available. A bulk unloader is also available.


### Loan-->SpecimenSearch-->SpecimenResults (bulk)

Click one of the various "add items" links from the loan search results or edit pages, perform a search, add the results to the loan.

## Edit this Documentation

If you see something that needs to be edited in this document, you can create an issue using the link under the search widget at the top left side of this page, or you can edit directly <a href="https://github.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/edit/gh-pages/_how_to/How-to-Add-Loan-Items.markdown" target="_blank">here</a>.

[Add to Current update request](https://github.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/issues/186)

 [//]: #[Request an Update to this How To](https://github.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/issues/new?assignees=&labels=How+To+Update&template=how-to-update.md&title=How+To+%5Badd+title%5D+update)

Commit message:

Split object and data loan how tos

_how_to/How-to-Add-Loan-Items.markdown, after:

---
title: How To Add Items to an Object Loan
layout: default_toc
author: DLM, Teresa J Mayfield-Meyer
date: 2023-03-06, 2021-01-15, 2021-07-24
---
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/gh-pages/tutorial_images/Bear%20Work%20in%20Progress.JPG) 

[Add to Current update request](https://github.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/issues/186)

[//]: #[Request an Update to this How To](https://github.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/issues/new?assignees=&labels=How+To+Update&template=how-to-update.md&title=How+To+%5Badd+title%5D+update)

# How To Add Items to an Object Loan

Object loans are "standard" loans that record the loan of catalog record parts.

## From the Edit Loan Page

Click the “Add Items” button at the bottom of the page.

The standard Arctos search page will appear, but with red letters saying:  **You are searching for items to add to a loan**

Search for catalog records as you normally would. When the results are displayed, there will be an option next to each catalog record’s parts that will allow you to add it to the loan. Select the relevant parts and then click “Back to Loan” at the top of the page (above the line that indicates the number of specimens that were found).

### Loan-->SpecimenSearch-->SpecimenResults (individual)

Click one of the various "add items" links from the loan search results or edit pages, perform a search, and select individual parts to add in the grid that will appear.

### Loan-->SpecimenSearch-->SpecimenResults (bulk)

After following the pathway for individual items, bulk tools are available if the search results are of sufficient homogeneity.

### Loan-->Saved Search

You may go directly to your saved searches and archives in loan mode by selecting one from the edit loan form.

### Loan-->Barcode

Follow the link to add loan items by scanning barcodes.

### Bulkloader

A tool to bulkload loan items is available.

### Container Leaf Nodes

[How To Find Parts for a Loan Using Object Tracking (Barcodes)](https://handbook.arctosdb.org/how_to/How-To-Find-Parts%20for-a-Loan-Using%20Object%20Tracking-Existing-Freezer-Box.html

Find any container, view leaf nodes

## Edit this Documentation

If you see something that needs to be edited in this document, you can create an issue using the link under the search widget at the top left side of this page, or you can edit directly <a href="https://github.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/edit/gh-pages/_how_to/How-to-Add-Loan-Items.markdown" target="_blank">here</a>.

[Add to Current update request](https://github.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/issues/186)

 [//]: #[Request an Update to this How To](https://github.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/issues/new?assignees=&labels=How+To+Update&template=how-to-update.md&title=How+To+%5Badd+title%5D+update)
