_how_to/How-to-Edit-Catalog-Numbers-for-Individual-Specimens.markdown, before:

---
title: How To Edit Catalog Numbers for Individual Catalog Records
layout: default_toc
---

(Based on a guide initally developed by April Payne, Northern Michigan University)

* Search for the catalog record you wish to edit and select the record from the search results.

* Click the “Other IDs” tab from the list of options above the catalog record information boxes.

* You can assign a catalog number in the appropriate field of the resulting window.

   * To identify breaks in assigned catalog numbers, click the “[find gaps]” link to the right of the catalog number field.

* When finished, click “Save Changes”. The change will be saved and can be viewed when you run a new search for the catalog record. If you try to refresh the page Arctos will give you an error message because the catalog number has changed.

## Edit this Documentation

If you see something that needs to be edited in this document, you can create an issue using the link under the search widget at the top left side of this page, or you can edit directly <a href="https://github.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/edit/gh-pages/_how_to/How-to-Edit-Catalog-Numbers-for-Individual-Specimens.markdown" target="_blank">here</a>.

Commit message:

Adding caution
Changing catalog number should almost NEVER be a thing.

_how_to/How-to-Edit-Catalog-Numbers-for-Individual-Specimens.markdown, after:

---
title: How To Edit Catalog Numbers for Individual Catalog Records
layout: default_toc
---

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/gh-pages/tutorial_images/Bear%20Caution.jpg) **Caution**

Changing the catalog number is dangerous as the objects cataloged may have been cited using the existing number. If a change is made, the "old" number should not be reused and it should be redirected to the "new" number. See [Redirects](https://handbook.arctosdb.org/documentation/redirect.html)

(Based on a guide initally developed by April Payne, Northern Michigan University)

* Search for the catalog record you wish to edit and select the record from the search results.

* Click the “Other IDs” tab from the list of options above the catalog record information boxes.

* You can assign a catalog number in the appropriate field of the resulting window.

   * To identify breaks in assigned catalog numbers, click the “[find gaps]” link to the right of the catalog number field.

* When finished, click “Save Changes”. The change will be saved and can be viewed when you run a new search for the catalog record. If you try to refresh the page Arctos will give you an error message because the catalog number has changed.

## Edit this Documentation

If you see something that needs to be edited in this document, you can create an issue using the link under the search widget at the top left side of this page, or you can edit directly <a href="https://github.com/ArctosDB/documentation-wiki/edit/gh-pages/_how_to/How-to-Edit-Catalog-Numbers-for-Individual-Specimens.markdown" target="_blank">here</a>.
